2014年6月20日讯 /生物谷BIOON/ --世界最大的合约研究机构Quintiles公司最近和美国理疗学会（American Physical Therapy Association APTA）达成合作协议。公司将凭借自己的大数据业务为APTA建立起首个患者电子登记处以帮助病人保存相关治疗信息以备进一步治疗之用。双方都没有透露具体的合约金额，但是他们计划利用"中心辐射"型模型来建设这个电子注册处，这一数据库将从不同来源归纳整理患者信息，其中就包括患者电子健康纪录、帐单等。这将是世界上最大一个理疗电子注册处。Quintiles公司计划于今年第三季度招募患者体验试用版，而正式版将于2015年早些时候发布。Quintiles的Cynthia Verst介绍说这一合作将有利于患者更方便快捷注册，同时还有助于提高现在医疗服务的效率。（生物谷Bioon.com）详细英文报道：Quintiles ($Q), the world's largest CRO, is lending its Big Data heft to the American Physical Therapy Association (APTA), agreeing to help create a registry of patient outcomes data to inform future treatment.Without disclosing financial details, the two say they plan to use a "hub-and-spoke" model of registry creation, drawing in data from a wide range of sources and depositing it in a centralized place, hosted by Quintiles. Those spokes will tap electronic health records, billing data, private practices, APTA and other sources, cobbling together what would be the largest and most comprehensive physical therapy electronic registry to date.Quintiles plans to begin recruiting users for a pilot version of the registry in the third quarter of this year, planning a full launch in early 2015."Patient registries are an increasingly vital component of real-world, comprehensive evidence development for identifying the causes of disease and, in this case, injuries, and designing effective treatments," Quintiles Late-Phase Research President Cynthia Verst said in a statement. "Working together with APTA and leveraging our expertise in designing and implementing registries, our goal is to build a new registry that will provide clinicians and practices with benchmark data to improve healthcare delivery and achieve better patient outcomes."Quintiles capabilities in post-marketing study helped it secure a similar arrangement with the Muscular Dystrophy Association last year. Under that deal, the CRO is lending its research and analytics expertise to create a network that will allow researchers to study the natural history of muscular dystrophy and related diseases, examine practice patterns and inform care guidelines.The agreements are a change of pace from the company's more common work with drug developers, but the CRO has plenty of experience gathering real-world patient data through Quintiles Outcome, its late-phase division. 