2014-12-05
2020年全球导管市场将达到425亿美元 - 移动医疗专区 - 生物谷
2014年12月5日讯 /生物谷BIOON/ --（catheter）是由医疗级材料如塑料、硅橡胶、聚氯乙烯、尼龙制成的细管，插入患者体内用于治疗或诊断目的。导管程序通常与其他不同的医疗程序如血管成形术、心脏电生理及神经外科联合开展。导管是多种手术过程的重要组成部分。心血管疾病发病率的上升及微创手术需求的不断增长，是推动全球导管市场发展的主要驱动力。此外，糖尿病、膀胱功能衰竭、肾脏衰竭发病率的上升也推动了全球导管市场的发展。根据全球知名市场调研公司Research and Markets发布的报告，在2014-2020年预测期内，全球导管市场将以7.5%的年复合增长率（CAGR）发展，2020年市值达到425亿美元。全球导管市场中，心血管导管是创收最高的领域，占市场总收入的40%。心血管导管有许多变种，如电导管PTCA（经皮冠状动脉腔内成形术）、球囊导管、血管内超声导管、经皮腔内血管成形术（PTA气球）、引导导管、造影导管、肺动脉导管等。心血管疾病的高发以及独特特征强化的心血管导管开发，是推动心血管导管市场的核心驱动因素。然而，心脏和神经手术的高成本及经验熟练专业人才的缺乏，限制了全球导管市场的增长。此外，医院感染发生率的升高，如导管相关尿路感染是制约泌尿导管市场增长的主要因素之一。展望未来，印度和中国等发展中国家地区，对微创手术的认识和接纳逐渐提高，将为这些地地区导管市场的增长提供潜在的机会。泌尿系统疾病发病率的升高，如膀胱癌、肾功能衰竭，显著提升了对泌尿导管的需求。此外，相对于整体导管及变体产品线，对于导管制造商而言，新颖产品（如外接男性导管）已被证明是一种有利可图的市场。在预测期内，泌尿导管市场CAGR为8.2%。随着缺血性和出血性中风发病率的升高，微创神经血管手术的需求也在不断增加，从而为神经血管导管（如微导管和引导导管）的增长创造了一些机会。预测期内，心血管导管CAGR为7.4%。按地理划分，全球导管市场可分为北美、欧洲、亚太、及LAMEA（拉丁美洲，中东，非洲）。目前，北美占有最大的市场份额，在2014-2020预测期内CAGR为5.5%，2020年达到160亿美元。由于新兴经济体如印度和中国等国家中医疗基础设施的改善，亚太地区将高速发展，预测期内CAGR为8.8%。报告指出，全球导管市场的主要参与者包括：Boston Dickinson、巴德医疗（Bard Medicals）,波士顿科学（Boston Scientific）, 霍利斯特（Hollister），爱德华生命科学（Edwards Lifesciences），B.Braun Melsungen, Arrow Internationals，美敦力（Medtronic）拜耳Medrad, 强生（JNJ），雅培（Abbott)。（生物谷Bioon.com）英文原文：Research and Markets: Global Catheters Market 2013-2020: Global Catheters Market to Reach $42.5 Billion by 2020Catheters are thin tubes made up of medical grade material such as plastic, silicon rubber, PVC and nylon that are inserted in the patient’s body for therapeutic and diagnostic purposes. Catheterization is a primary co-procedure along with varied other medical procedures such as angioplasty, cardiac electrophysiology, and neurosurgery among others. Catheters are the vital component in several surgical procedures. The global catheters market is primarily driven by increasing cardiovascular diseases and growing demand for minimal invasive surgeries. The demand for the catheters market is also fuelled by the rising incidence of diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, urinary bladder failure, and kidney failures. The global catheters market would reach $42.5 billion by 2020, registering CAGR of 7.5% during 2014-2020. Cardiovascular catheters are the largest revenue generating segment in the global catheters market, accounting for nearly 40% of total catheters market revenue. Cardiovascular catheters are offered in many variants, namely Electrophysiology Catheters PTCA (Percutaneous Transluminal Coronary Angioplasty) Balloon Catheters, Intravascular Ultrasound (IVUS), Percutaneous Transluminal Angioplasty (PTA Balloons), Guiding Catheters, Angiography Catheters and Pulmonary Artery Catheters. High prevalence of cardiovascular diseases, coupled with the development of unique-feature enhanced cardiovascular catheters is the core factor driving growth of cardiovascular catheters market.Increasing prevalence of urological diseases such as urinary bladder cancer and kidney failure has significantly uplifted demand for urological catheters. Also, novel products such as external male catheters have proved to be a lucrative addition to the overall catheters and variants’ product lines for the catheters manufacturing companies.The increasing patient pool for ischemic and haemorrhagic stroke thereby increased demand for minimally invasive neurovascular surgeries have created several opportunities for the neurovascular catheters - namely Micro Catheters and Guiding Catheters. The global catheters market is segmented based on geography into North America, Europe, Asia Pacific and LAMEA.KEY BENEFITS- The analysis helps in understanding strategies adopted by various companies for growth within the global catheters market- Comprehensive analysis of factors that drive and restrict the growth of the catheters market is provided. For example, the rising prevalence of cardiovascular diseases and urological diseases will drive the catheters market; however, the increasing incidences of nosocomial urinary tract infection likely to be a restraint of the market.- The market conditions of global catheters across all geographic regions are comprehensively analyzed. Key trends such as medical tourism, consequent stringent regulations regarding control of cross-contamination in hospitals, coupled with enhanced distribution and supply within regional markets, for example, Asia-Pacific market are expected to drive growth of the market.- Porter’s five forces model gives an in-depth analysis of the bargaining power of buyers and suppliers, threats of new entrants and substitutes and competition amongst key market players- Prime focus of the report is opportunity-analysis within this market. Worldwide replacement potential among the different catheters products, for instance, drug coated dilatation catheters is one of the product-opportunities within the catheters market 