2014-05-20
罗氏$4.5亿收购IQuum进军分子诊断POCT市场 - 移动医疗专区 - 生物谷
2014年4月7日讯 /生物谷BIOON/ --罗氏（Roche）4月7日宣布，耗资4.5亿美元收购IQuum公司。IQuum位于美国马萨诸塞州，专注于开发即时护理（point-of-care，POC）产品，用于分子诊断市场。根据协议条款，罗氏将支付IQuum股东2.75亿前期付款，以及1.75亿美元的产品相关里程碑或然付款。该笔交易一旦完成，IQuum将被整合入罗氏分子诊断（Roche Molecular Diagnostics）。此次收购，将使罗氏快速进入分子诊断的即时诊断（POC）细分市场。罗氏将获得IQuum公司的Liat系统（Laboratory-in-a-tube，管中实验室），该系统能够以最少的培训，使护理人员在更接近患者的护理现场，开展快速的分子诊断测试。Liat分析器和Liat流感A/B试剂盒是利用Liat系统开发的首个产品，可提供与实验室检测相媲美的可靠和准确诊断结果，目前该产品已获CE标志并获FDA批准。罗氏诊断首席运营官Roland Diggelmann称，随着IQuum的收购，罗氏将利用服务于POC细分市场的尖端技术和产品进一步增强自身的分子诊断部门。患者将从现场（on-the-spot）的准确诊断中受益，这种诊断技术使得医疗保健专业人员能够在灵活的环境下做出快速、知情的治疗决策。关于：IQuum是开发管中实验室（lab-in-a-tube）技术的领导者，这是一种新颖的生物样品检测平台，有望对生物检测市场提供变革性的利益。该技术，能够使非专业人员在任何环境下开展更快速和更复杂的生物样本测试。关于：POCT（Point of Care Testing，即时诊断）是一种崭新的移动检验模式，不仅专业医护人员，经过简单培训的患者及家属也能独立完成并能获得有助于临床诊断的信息。POCT不仅快速而且是现场分析，是其他检验方法无法实现的。（生物谷Bioon.com）英文原文：Roche acquires IQuum to strengthen offerings in molecular diagnosticsIQuum’s unique products will allow Roche to quickly enter the point of care segment of molecular diagnosticsRoche (SIX: RO, ROG; OTCQX: RHHBY) announced today the acquisition of IQuum, Inc. (IQuum) based in Marlborough, Massachusetts, USA. IQuum is a privately held company focused on developing point of care offerings for the molecular diagnostics market. Under the terms of the agreement, Roche will pay IQuum shareholders USD 275 million upfront and up to USD 175 million in contingent product related milestones. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions.The acquisition will provide Roche with access to IQuum’s Laboratory-in-a-tube (Liat™) System, which enables healthcare workers to perform rapid molecular diagnostic testing in a point of care setting, closer to patients and with minimal training. The Liat™ Analyzer and Liat™ Influenza A/B Assay, the first test available for use on the system, produce reliable and accurate lab-like results and are CE marked and FDA cleared.“With IQuum, we further strengthen our molecular diagnostics offerings with cutting-edge technology and products that serve the point of care segment. Patients will benefit from on-the-spot and accurate diagnoses, which will allow healthcare professionals to make rapid, informed treatment decisions in flexible settings,” said Roland Diggelmann, COO of Roche Diagnostics. “We welcome IQuum’s employees, who will continue to focus on the development and manufacturing of the Liat™ Analyzer and assays.”“We are very excited to continue developing innovative molecular diagnostics solutions as part of the Roche Molecular Diagnostics team,” said Shuqi Chen, Ph.D., CEO and founder of IQuum. “Roche is the ideal company to deliver on the promise of our point of care molecular diagnostics technology. We are fully committed to the continued success of IQuum’s employees, products and pipeline.”Once the transaction is complete, IQuum will be integrated into Roche Molecular Diagnostics.About IQuumIQuum is the leader in developing the lab-in-a-tube technology, a novel biological sample testing platform which provides revolutionary benefits to a broad cross section of the bioassay market. The Company's proprietary technology enables non-specialized personnel to perform more sophisticated biological sample testing in any setting with greater speed. Founded in 1998 by Dr. Shuqi Chen and his co-founder Keith Greenfield, the Company is commercializing its lab-in-a-tube technology and products for the clinical diagnostics, bio-defense, and industrial testing markets. 