2015年4月6日讯 /生物谷BIOON/ --医药市场一直是世界各国政府关注的重中之重，原因就在于上市药物的安全与否直接关系到各国人民的生命安全。因此，药物审批可以说是世界各国审批最为严格的流程之一。尽管如此，哪怕在审批制度最为完善的美国和欧洲市场，每年也总会发生几起药物事故。因此，专门用于药物安全监测的软件应运而生，成为辅助FDA和EMA的监管措施之一。相对于欧美两大医药市场的成熟体制，在拉丁美洲、亚洲等新兴市场上，药物安全监测仍然是一个令各国医药管理部门头痛的事情。最近，美国的著名市场调查公司MarketsandMarkets发布了一份报告，称未来新兴国家医药市场中药物安全监测软件开发将成为一个新蓝海产业。据预计，未来几年，这一市场每年将以6.5%的速度递增，按此速度，到2019年药物安全监测软件市场的份额将会达到1亿5千万美元左右。同时，受惠于各国政府的不断扶持以及欧美发达国家跨国医药企业研发中心迁入，这一市场有望在未来的数年内持续保持增长。事实上，近几年来，欧美等发达国家的医药管理部门越来越认识到现有药物审批流程的弊端。审批管理人员一方面需要事无巨细的分析新药数据，使新药审批的流程变得过于复杂，许多市场紧缺药物都无法及时获得批准上市；另一方面，上市后监管的缺失经常会造成上市药物销售出去后出现各种始料未及的副作用。有鉴于此，最近欧盟EMA宣布将展开有条件加速审批的政策，这一政策在加速药物审批的同时又注重药物上市后的数据收集，有望将目前通用的"预审批"转为"审批后管理"模式。（相关阅读：）而药物安全监测软件则可以作为这一政策的有效补充。事实上，许多生物医药巨头都已经意识到了这一点。不久之前，世界最大的CRO之一Parexel公司就收购了印度的Quantum Solutions India公司，而后者则恰恰是专门致力于药物安全监测软件的开发。可以说，近几年来生物医药领域的飞速发展创造了许多难得的发展机遇，而药物安全检测软件产业的发展可以说是指日可待。有志于在生物医药产业一展拳脚的人们不妨关注一下。（生物谷Bioon.com）Analysts at MarketsandMarkets have looked into their crystal ball and come up with a forecast of the pharmacovigilance and drug safety software sector. The authors predict the value of the market will top $150 million by 2019, with Asia and Latin America tipped to be the driving forces behind growth over the next few years.The global market is forecast to achieve a compound annual growth rate of 6.5% from 2014 to 2019. Mature regions such as North America and Europe--which are currently the top two markets for drug safety software--will continue to command a sizable share of the sector, but growth is faster in some emerging markets. Demand for pharmacovigilance and drug safety software in Asia and Latin America is underpinned by the emergence of biotechs in Brazil, China and India, as well as the continuing transfer of R&D from Western companies to partners in emerging markets.In the West, shifts in regulators' attitudes toward postmarket safety surveillance are still playing out. Europe is in the process of implementing pharmacovigilance legislation. And regulators on both sides of the Atlantic are increasingly interested in moving the burden of data generation from pre- to postapproval. The transition--embodied through initiatives such as Europe's conditional approvals--will allow companies to start selling certain drugs sooner but increase their postmarket surveillance responsibilities.Software and service providers that can make complying with these and other safety requirements as painless as possible are likely to be in demand, prompting multiple companies to place bets on the future of the sector. CRO Parexel ($PRXL) became the latest company to do so this week when is struck a deal to buy Quantum Solutions India (QSI) for an undisclosed sum. QSI provides a range of pharmacovigilance services, including the hosting of drug safety databases using Oracle ($ORCL) Argus Safety system. 