2015-01-24
The Lancet：降血压方法的革命性新发现 - 穿戴设备专区 - 生物谷
2015年1月24日讯 /生物谷BIOON/--根据Queen Mary，London University在上发表的最新一篇的研究，他们发明了一个有革命性意义的新装置，能显著降低未接受过治疗的高血压患者的血压水平，而且比其他药物治疗效果更明显。这个装置，由ROX Medical合作开发并命名为“Coupler”，是一个回形针大小的植入物，需要被植入中央髂动静脉，这一植入过程被称为中央动静脉吻合术（Central Arteriovenous Anastomosis）。研究人员筛选了83位患有顽固性高血压并且对至少三种常规降压药治疗无效的受试者，其中44例接受了 Coupler植入的治疗。比照于对照组，接受Coupler植入的患者血压降低十分显著而持久，并且高血压的并发症和入院治疗的情况也明显减少。Coupler植入对肾脏去神经手术（Renal Denervation，另一种新的治疗高血压的方法）效果不明显的患者降血压作用同样十分显著。同时与肾脏去神经手术相比，Coupler为基础的治疗方法优点在于完全可逆的性，快速而又无痛苦。科研小队的梅尔文博士评论说：“这是高血压治疗的极具潜力的新概念。现有的降血压药品集中在血压相关的激素或神经调节等，而Coupler却是针对血液循环机械原理 。所以这是一个全新的方法来控制血压。”她还表示，Coupler一旦被植入时，降血压的效果立竿见影，这也是这种治疗所特有的。然而，Coupler植入也有一个副作用。约29％的的患者在植入后出现了腿部肿胀。这意味着还需要另一个小手术解决这个副作用（通常是做静脉支架）。梅尔文博士表示，他们还需要更多的研究来探索Coupler的长期影响，以了解其安全性和工作机制。不过这个新发现仍然为顽固性高血压患者的治疗提供了一个非常有效的新选择。（生物谷Bioon.com）PMC：PMID：Melvin D Lobo, Paul A Sobotka, Alice Stanton, John R Cockcroft, Neil Sulke, Eamon Dolan, Markus van der Giet, Joachim Hoyer, Stephen S Furniss, John P Foran, Adam Witkowski, Andrzej Januszewicz, Danny Schoors, Konstantinos Tsioufis, Benno J Rensing, Benjamin Scott, G André Ng, Christian Ott, Roland E Schmieder.BackgroundHypertension contributes to cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. We assessed the safety and efficacy of a central iliac arteriovenous anastomosis to alter the mechanical arterial properties and reduce blood pressure in patients with uncontrolled hypertension.MethodsWe enrolled patients in this open-label, multicentre, prospective, randomised, controlled trial between October, 2012, and April, 2014. Eligible patients had baseline office systolic blood pressure of 140 mm Hg or higher and average daytime ambulatory blood pressure of 135 mm Hg or higher systolic and 85 mm Hg or higher diastolic despite antihypertensive treatment. Patients were randomly allocated in a 1:1 ratio to undergo implantation of an arteriovenous coupler device plus current pharmaceutical treatment or to maintain current treatment alone (control). The primary endpoint was mean change from baseline in office and 24 h ambulatory systolic blood pressure at 6 months. Analysis was by modified intention to treat (all patients remaining in follow-up at 6 months). This trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT01642498.Findings83 (43%) of 195 patients screened were assigned arteriovenous coupler therapy (n=44) or normal care (n=39). Mean office systolic blood pressure reduced by 26·9 (SD 23·9) mm Hg in the arteriovenous coupler group (p<0·0001) and by 3·7 (21·2) mm Hg in the control group (p=0·31). Mean systolic 24 h ambulatory blood pressure reduced by 13·5 (18·8) mm Hg (p<0·0001) in arteriovenous coupler recipients and by 0·5 (15·8) mm Hg (p=0·86) in controls. Implantation of the arteriovenous coupler was associated with late ipsilateral venous stenosis in 12 (29%) of 42 patients and was treatable with venoplasty or stenting.InterpretationArteriovenous anastomosis was associated with significantly reduced blood pressure and hypertensive complications. This approach might be a useful adjunctive therapy for patients with uncontrolled hypertension.