2015-03-04
“最炫小苹果”！佳能玩跨界试水生物医药产业 - 移动医疗专区 - 生物谷
2015年3月4日讯 /生物谷BIOON/--提到佳能公司，首先映在大家脑海里的可能就是一个个“长枪短炮”似的单反相机。不过，伴随着羊年到来，这家提供数字成像方案的业界翘楚也希望玩一把跨界。佳能美国公司日前宣布将成立一个名为Canon BioMedical, Inc.的分公司，试水生物医药产业。这家公司将凭借佳能公司先进的数字成像技术开拓分子诊断平台等新技术。佳能公司透露，这家新成立的生物技术公司总部将设在纽约，Ms. Akiko Tanaka出任总裁兼CEO。Ms. Akiko Tanaka表示，未来一段时间Canon BioMedical, Inc.的业务中心将重点放在医学分析和健康护理等领域。不过，佳能公司并不是第一个吃螃蟹的人，就在上周，尼康公司宣布将以4亿美元收购英国视网膜成像诊断仪器生产商Optos，宣告了踏足生物医药产业的第一步。尼康计划将自身的图像处理技术与Optos的产品及独家技术整合起来，以开发高精度的诊断设备。此次，佳能公司与尼康公司争先恐后的进入生物医药产业领域则显得耐人寻味。事实上，随着生物技术的高速发展，生物医药产业正成为众多高新技术的汇合点，越来越多的公司开始跨领域踏入这一产业，试图抢先占领市场。亚马逊等公司为生物医药研发提供了强大的云储存服务；谷歌等互联网巨头则纷纷拉起大旗成立自己的生物信息学公司，为日趋火爆的基因诊断和疾病治疗等领域又添了一把柴；甚至三星公司也和百健艾迪公司成立合资公司，准备在生物医药产业领域攻城拔寨。更不要提现在手机客户端上的各种健康APP。而佳能公司此次决定可谓是恰逢其会。不过，要在竞争异常激烈的生物医药产业生存下去，还需要具备两把刷子。（生物谷Bioon.com）。详细英文报道：Canon U.S.A., Inc., a leader in digital imaging solutions, today announced the establishment of Canon BioMedical, Inc., a new wholly owned subsidiary that will serve as a worldwide headquarters for its biomedical business. The new company will conduct development, manufacturing and marketing operations relating to Canon's life science and molecular diagnostics platform and seek to expand the use of Canon technology into other medical fields.Based in Melville, New York, Canon BioMedical will be under the leadership of President and CEO, Ms. Akiko Tanaka. The new company will look for long-term future growth opportunities in previously untapped markets for Canon such as life science, healthcare, and medical analysis through the use of existing and emerging Canon technology, as well as strategic partnerships."We are truly excited and proud to launch Canon BioMedical, Inc., an American-born worldwide headquarters committed to bringing to market innovative technologies and solutions," said Joe Adachi, chairman and CEO, Canon U.S.A., Inc. "We look forward to bringing Canon technology to clinicians and scientists all over the world in an effort to assist in improving human health and in advancing science."About Canon U.S.A., Inc.Canon U.S.A., Inc., is a leading provider of consumer, business-to-business, and industrial digital imaging solutions to the United States and to Latin America and the Caribbean (excluding Mexico) markets. With approximately $31 billion in global revenue, its parent company, Canon Inc. CAJ, -0.25% ranked third overall in U.S. patents granted in 2014+ and is one of Fortune Magazine's World's Most Admired Companies in 2015. In 2014, Canon U.S.A. received the PCMag.com Readers' Choice Award for Service and Reliability in the digital camera and printer categories for the 11th consecutive year. Canon U.S.A. is committed to the highest level of customer satisfaction and loyalty, providing 100 percent U.S.-based consumer service and support for all of the products it distributes. Canon U.S.A. is dedicated to its Kyosei philosophy of social and environmental responsibility. In 2014, the Canon Americas Headquarters secured LEED? Gold certification, a recognition for the design, construction, operations and maintenance of high-performance green buildings. 