2014-12-02
2020年全球生物传感器市场将达到225亿美元 - 移动医疗专区 - 生物谷
2014年12月2日讯 /生物谷BIOON/ --。生物传感器是由固定化的生物敏感材料作识别元件（包括酶、抗体、抗原、微生物、细胞、组织、核酸等生物活性物质）与适当的理化换能器（如氧电极、光敏管、场效应管、压电晶体等等）及信号放大装置构成的分析工具或系统，具有接受器与转换器的功能。目前，生物传感器已广泛应用于医学检测、食品毒性检测、工业加工和监测、农业应用、环境污染控制等方面。根据全球知名市场调研公司PMR（Persistence Market Research）近日发布的一份新报告，未来6年，全球生物传感器（biosensor）市场将经历快速增长，该市场2014市值为129亿美元，到2020年将达到225亿美元，复合年增长率（CAGR）为9.7%。按地理划分，北美是全球生物传感器的最大市场，2014年市值57亿美元，预计到2020年将达到95亿美元，预测期内复合年增长率（CAGR）为8.9%。而由于医疗保险普及率的不断扩大、人口基数大以及卫生保健系统的不断升级，亚太地区将成为增长最快的地区。根据报告内容，由于即时检验(point-of-care testing,POCT)需求的不断增加，全球生物传感器市场正经历显著增长。慢性病及生活方式相关疾病发病率上升、不断增长的老龄人口、生物传感器在各行业的广泛应用、纳米技术在医疗保健领域的应用，帮助推动了全球生物传感器市场的快速增长。此外，个性化药物和非侵入性生物传感器的出现及不断增长的需求，也将驱动全球生物传感器市场增长。然而，医疗系统中严格的监管要求和报销政策将限制市场的增长，同时该领域的监管程序也未跟上新医疗技术的快速发展的步伐。按技术划分，生物传感器市场包括电化学、光学、压电、热敏电阻；其中，电化学生物传感器是生物传感器中最常用的技术，而光学生物传感器将成为增长最快的技术类型。按应用划分，生物传感器市场可分为医疗诊断、食品毒性检测、农业检测、工业过程控制和环境污染控制等，其中医疗诊断是生物传感器最流行的应用领域，而医疗诊断中即时检测（POCT）是生物传感器应用最多的领域。按终端用户划分，生物传感器市场可分为即时检测（POCT）、家庭保健诊断、研究实验室、安全和生物防御，其中安全和生物防御将成为增长最快的终端用户类型。报告指出，全球生物传感器市场的主要参与者包括：雅培（Abbott）、西门子医疗、Nova Biomedical公司、拜耳、强生、美敦力、罗氏等。（生物谷Bioon.com）英文原文：Persistence Market Research: Global Biosensor Market to Grow at 9.7% CAGR to USD 22.5 Billion by 2020NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Persistence Market Research  has published a new market report titled “Global Market Study on Biosensors: Asia Pacific to Witness Highest Growth by 2020,” which states that the biosensor market is estimated at USD 12.9 billion in 2014 and is expected to reach USD 22.5 billion by 2020, growing at a CAGR of 9.7% from 2014 to 2020.The study identifies key growth factors as: Increasing demand for point-of-care testing, rising prevalence of chronic and lifestyle-induced diseases, growing geriatric population, increasing uses of biosensors in various industries, and growing application of nanotechnology in healthcare. Miniaturization of sensors and product innovation are some of the key market trends. Geographically, North America has the largest market for biosensors, followed by Europe. Asia Pacific is the fastest-growing market for biosensors. Some of the other fast growing markets for biosensors are China, France and the U.S.Hoffmann-La Roche, Ltd. is one of the leading players in the biosensor market. Other major players in the biosensor market include: Abbott Laboratories, Inc, Siemens Healthcare, Nova Biomedical Corporation, Bayer AG, Johnson and Johnson, Medtronic, Inc. and LifeSensors, Inc.Markets coveredThe study analyzes the global biosensor market by technology, application, end users and geography. By technology, the study covers: Electrochemical biosensors, optical biosensors, piezoelectric biosensors and thermistor biosensors. Growing at a 10.7% CAGR, optical biosensors will likely emerge as the fastest growing segment in the biosensor market by 2020.By application, the study covers: Medical diagnostics, food toxicity detection, industrial process control, agricultural testing and environmental. By end users, the study covers: Point-of-care testing, home healthcare diagnostics, research laboratories, and security and bio-defense.