2015-04-03
百特双向连接自动腹膜透析机HomeChoice Claria获欧盟批准 - 穿戴设备专区 - 生物谷
2015年4月3日讯 /生物谷BIOON/ --百特（Baxter）研发的双向连接自动腹膜透析（APD）系统HomeChoice Claria近日喜获欧盟批准。这款APD设备，配备了ShareSource双向连接网络平台，使临床医生能够远程监控患者的家庭护理，并根据处方进行相应的远程调整。腹膜透析（PD）是一种可由患者在家中进行自助透析的治疗选择，主要用于末期肾脏病患者。整合双向连接平台ShareSource的HomeChoice Claria系统，可减少手动数据输入，同时使患者的维护记录能容易地访问，从而改善医疗保健人员的操作和时间效率。这款HomeChoice Claria系统也提供了友好的用户界面，有41种语言可供设置，同时配备了一个大的显示器，可提供更佳的视觉感受。HomeChoice Claria是百特最畅销的首创APD设备HomeChoice的高级版本，后者上市已10多年，是唯一一款由泵驱动的循环透析设备。之后，百特推出了HomeChoice Pro，这款腹膜透析机采用了一种特殊的临床软件和数据卡，采集每次透析的信息，使医生能够远程监控患者的治疗。HomeChoice Claria则配备了双向连接网络平台ShareSouce，通过一个网络连接系统，将医生和在家透析治疗的患者联系起来，能够实现更及时和更个性化的护理。百特已计划在2015年首个季度将HomeChoice Claria推向特定亚洲和欧洲国家。（生物谷Bioon.com）英文原文：Baxter International Inc. Gets Marketing Approval For Latest Home Dialysis Device In EuropeBaxter shares rose in yesterday’s trading after the company announced marketing approval for its latest automated peritoneal dialysis device in EuropeBaxter International Inc. (NYSE:BAX) received marketing approval in Europe for its automated peritoneal dialysis (APD) system called HOMECHOICE CLARIA. The APD device, equipped with SHARESOURCE web-based connectivity platform, offers two-way connectivity which ensures that clinicians can easily monitor the home-based peritoneal dialysis (PD) therapy of their patients and make adjustments to prescriptions accordingly.PD is a home-based dialysis treatment option available mainly to those patients who are going through the last stage of renal disease.HOMECHOICE CLARIA integrated with SHARESOURCE will also help to improve practice and time efficiency of healthcare providers by decreasing manual data entry and maintaining patient records that can be easily accessed by the concerned healthcare staff. The HOMECHOICE CLARIA device is also designed with user-friendly interface which is accessible in 41 languages and a large display screen with two-line space for sharp visibility.CLARIA constitutes an advanced version of Baxter’s top-selling, first-of-its-kind APD device called HOMECHOICE, which has been the only pump-based cycler for dialysis patients since more than a decade. The device is portable, easy-to-use, and is designed to meet the needs of adults and young renal patients alike.HOMECHOICE was soon followed by HOMECHOICE PRO that enabled doctors to remotely monitor their patients’ treatment with the use of special, custom-based clinical software and a data card which captured information from each dialysis session.CLARIA builds upon the previous two versions of Baxter’s APD system through integration of SHARESOUCE, which connects doctors and home-based dialysis patients through a web-based connectivity system.Bruce Culleton, vice president, renal therapeutic area lead at Baxter, said that the CLARIA device “builds upon our market-leading HOMECHOICE APD device with new features to make the system more intuitive for patients to operate in their home and while traveling.”He further added that the SHARESOURCE system distinguishes CLARIA from the prior versions of HOMECHOICE by providing “physicians remote access to their home patients' treatment information allowing for more timely and personalized care.”Baxter expects to begin launch of the HOMECHOICE CLARIA device by the first half of 2015 in certain Asian and European countries.Jill Schaaf, president of Baxter's renal business, highlighted the company’s commitment to increasing life expectancy and quality of life for renal patients, saying: "Every patient with end-stage renal disease deserves access to individualized care. HOMECHOICE CLARIA with SHARESOURCE represents Baxter's continued commitment to advancing renal technology that offers healthcare providers and patients therapy options for end-stage renal disease."The announcement of CE marking (approval for market launch in Europe) completion for HOMCHOICE CLARIA caused the share price of Baxter to reach the highest point at $68.31 apiece in yesterday’s trading session, up from $68.20 per share. Baxter stock closed at $67.54 per share yesterday.